README.rst, before:

=============
Python Tokens
=============

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/zalando-stups/python-tokens.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/zalando-stups/python-tokens
   :alt: Build Status

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/zalando-stups/python-tokens/badge.svg
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/zalando-stups/python-tokens
   :alt: Code Coverage

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dw/stups-tokens.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/stups-tokens/
   :alt: PyPI Downloads

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/stups-tokens.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/stups-tokens/
   :alt: Latest PyPI version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/stups-tokens.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/stups-tokens/
   :alt: License

A Python library that keeps OAuth 2.0 service access tokens in memory for your usage.

Installation
============

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo pip3 install --upgrade stups-tokens

Usage
=====

.. code-block:: python

    import requests
    import time
    import tokens

    # will use OAUTH2_ACCESS_TOKEN_URL environment variable by default
    # will try to read application credentials from CREDENTIALS_DIR
    tokens.configure(url='https://example.com/access_tokens')
    tokens.manage('example', ['read', 'write'])
    tokens.start()

    tok = tokens.get('example')

    requests.get('https://example.org/', headers={'Authorization': 'Bearer {}'.format(tok)})

    time.sleep(3600) # make the token expire

    tok = tokens.get('example') # will refresh the expired token
    requests.get('https://example.org/', headers={'Authorization': 'Bearer {}'.format(tok)})

Local testing
=============

The "tokens" library allows injecting fixed OAuth2 access tokens via the `OAUTH2_ACCESS_TOKENS` environment variable.
This allows testing applications using the library locally with personal OAuth2 tokens (e.g. generated by "zign"):

.. code-block:: bash

    $ MY_TOKEN=$(zign token -n mytok)
    $ export OAUTH2_ACCESS_TOKENS=mytok=$MY_TOKEN
    $ ./myapp.py # start my local Python app using the tokens library


Releasing
=========

Uploading a new version to PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./release.sh <NEW-VERSION>

Commit message:

#10 README for tokens from file

README.rst, after:

=============
Python Tokens
=============

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/zalando-stups/python-tokens.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/zalando-stups/python-tokens
   :alt: Build Status

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/zalando-stups/python-tokens/badge.svg
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/zalando-stups/python-tokens
   :alt: Code Coverage

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dw/stups-tokens.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/stups-tokens/
   :alt: PyPI Downloads

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/stups-tokens.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/stups-tokens/
   :alt: Latest PyPI version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/stups-tokens.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/stups-tokens/
   :alt: License

A Python library that keeps OAuth 2.0 service access tokens in memory for your usage.

Installation
============

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo pip3 install --upgrade stups-tokens

Usage
=====

.. code-block:: python

    import requests
    import time
    import tokens

    # will use OAUTH2_ACCESS_TOKEN_URL environment variable by default
    # will try to read application credentials from CREDENTIALS_DIR
    tokens.configure(url='https://example.com/access_tokens')
    tokens.manage('example', ['read', 'write'])
    tokens.start()

    tok = tokens.get('example')

    requests.get('https://example.org/', headers={'Authorization': 'Bearer {}'.format(tok)})

    time.sleep(3600) # make the token expire

    tok = tokens.get('example') # will refresh the expired token
    requests.get('https://example.org/', headers={'Authorization': 'Bearer {}'.format(tok)})

This library also allows reading tokens directly from a file. The token needs to be in a file name ``${CREDENTIALS_DIR}/${TOKEN_NAME}-secret``:

.. code-block:: python

    import tokens

    # the environment variable CREDENTIALS_DIR must be set correctly
    tokens.manage('full-access')
    tok = tokens.get('full-access')

    requests.get('https://example.org/', headers={'Authorization': 'Bearer {}'.format(tok)})

Local testing
=============

The "tokens" library allows injecting fixed OAuth2 access tokens via the `OAUTH2_ACCESS_TOKENS` environment variable.
This allows testing applications using the library locally with personal OAuth2 tokens (e.g. generated by "zign"):

.. code-block:: bash

    $ MY_TOKEN=$(zign token -n mytok)
    $ export OAUTH2_ACCESS_TOKENS=mytok=$MY_TOKEN
    $ ./myapp.py # start my local Python app using the tokens library


Releasing
=========

Uploading a new version to PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./release.sh <NEW-VERSION>
